#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is social change (Kendall, 2000)?	The alteration, modification, or transformation of public policy, culture, or social institutions over time.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What is the sociological imagination?	The ability to see the relationship between an individual's experiences and the larger society.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What are the three levels of social context in the lecture's diagram, from inside to outside?	Micro, macro, global.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
Why can't social problems be solved at the individual level?	Because they are more than personal troubles or private problems; their causes are in society.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
Why do people often start dealing with a social problem in an individualized way?	Because social institutions can't deal with it effectively, and political and business leaders are unwilling or unable to allocate the needed resources.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What do micro level solutions focus on?	How individuals operate within small groups.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What is a primary group?	A small, less-specialized group whose members have face-to-face, emotion-based interactions over a long period (e.g. family, close friends).	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What kind of support does a primary group usually give for personal problems?	Short-term support.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What do mid-range solutions focus on?	How secondary groups and formal organizations can help individuals overcome issues such as drug addiction or domestic violence.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What is a secondary group?	A more specialized, activity-oriented group with defined roles and expectations.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What do self-help groups bring together?	Individuals who have experienced the same problem and have the same goals.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
Name the two best-known self-help groups mentioned in the lecture.	Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) and Narcotics Anonymous (NA).	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What is a limitation of self-help groups?	They help individuals cope, but a larger societal intervention is often needed to reduce the problems behind individual behaviours.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What are grassroots groups?	Organizations started by ordinary people to deal with a perceived problem in their neighbourhood, city, province or territory, or nation.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
According to the "deeper issue" quote, what is the crisis?	People don't know how to come together to solve problems; too many people feel powerless.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What is a social movement?	An organized group that acts collectively to promote or resist change through collective action.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What are social movements like when they begin?	Not institutionalized and outside the political mainstream; they give outsiders a chance to be heard.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
Give three examples of social movements from the lecture.	Greenpeace, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), Canadian Peace Alliance.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What do macro level solutions focus on?	Persuading large-scale social institutions, such as government and the media, to help remedy social problems.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What is a special interest (pressure) group?	A political coalition of individuals or groups sharing a specific interest they want to protect or advance through the political system.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What are the four ways to categorize special interest groups?	Issue focus; views of the present system of wealth and power; beliefs about elites; type of political action.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What is collective behaviour?	Voluntary, often spontaneous activity of many people that typically violates dominant norms and values (e.g. demonstrations, riots).	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What is civil disobedience?	Non-violent action that seeks to change a policy or law by refusing to comply with it (e.g. sit-ins, strikes, marches, boycotts).	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What is the difference between reform and revolutionary movements?	Reform movements change a specific aspect of the social structure; revolutionary movements seek total change in society.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What do resistance movements do?	Try to prevent or undo change that has already occurred (e.g. anti-abortion groups, opposition to same-sex marriage).	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What do alternative movements seek?	Limited change in some aspects of people's behaviour.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
What do religious/expressive movements seek?	To renew people through inner change; they often also push officials to pass laws reducing perceived social problems.	GEN100 week-03 global-citizenship
