#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is TypeScript, in relation to JavaScript?	A superset of JavaScript that adds static typing and compiles down to plain JavaScript.	CSD214 typescript
What command installs the TypeScript compiler globally?	npm install -g typescript	CSD214 typescript
What command generates a tsconfig.json file in the current folder?	tsc --init	CSD214 typescript
What does the strict option in tsconfig.json control?	Whether strict type checking is enabled; without it TypeScript is much more permissive.	CSD214 typescript
What does the target option in tsconfig.json control?	Which version of JavaScript the compiled output should target, e.g. ES2020.	CSD214 typescript
What is the difference between let and const in TypeScript?	let can be reassigned after declaration; const cannot.	CSD214 typescript
What does TypeScript do when you write let inferred = 5 without an annotation?	It infers the type number from the assigned value.	CSD214 typescript
What is the difference between the any and unknown types?	any disables type checking entirely, while unknown accepts any value but forces you to narrow it before use.	CSD214 typescript
Why should any generally be avoided in TypeScript code?	Because it defeats the purpose of using TypeScript by turning off type checking for that value.	CSD214 typescript
What does a function with a void return type indicate?	That the function does not return a value.	CSD214 typescript
What does the never type indicate about a function?	The function never returns normally, either because it always throws or loops forever.	CSD214 typescript
How does a tuple type like [string, number] differ from an array type like string[]?	A tuple has a fixed length with a specific type per position, while an array can be any length with every element sharing one type.	CSD214 typescript
What is a literal type, using "up" | "down" | "left" | "right" as an example?	A type that restricts a value to one specific, exact set of allowed values.	CSD214 typescript
How does an enum differ from a literal union type at runtime?	An enum generates an actual JavaScript object at runtime, while a literal union is a compile-time-only check that produces no runtime code.	CSD214 typescript
What does an interface describe in TypeScript?	The shape an object must have, without providing any implementation.	CSD214 typescript
What are the three access modifiers in TypeScript, and which is the default?	public, private, and protected; public is the default.	CSD214 typescript
What is the difference between private and protected access modifiers?	private is only accessible inside the declaring class; protected is accessible inside the declaring class and its subclasses.	CSD214 typescript
What does prefixing a constructor parameter with private or public do?	It both declares the property on the class and assigns it from the argument, in one step.	CSD214 typescript
What do static members belong to in a class?	The class itself, not any individual instance, so they are shared across the whole program.	CSD214 typescript
What is a generic type parameter like <T> used for in a function?	It lets the function work with a type decided at the call site instead of being locked to one specific type.	CSD214 typescript
What does T extends Lengthwise accomplish in a generic function signature?	It constrains T to any type that has a length property, so the function body can safely access arg.length.	CSD214 typescript
What does the Partial<T> utility type do?	It makes every property of T optional.	CSD214 typescript
What does the Record<K, V> utility type build?	An object type with keys of type K and values of type V.	CSD214 typescript
What is the difference between an intersection type (&) and a union type (|)?	Intersection means a value must satisfy all combined types at once; union means a value can be one of several types, but only one at a time.	CSD214 typescript
What does a type guard do?	Narrows a union type down to one specific type inside a conditional block, so the code afterward can safely assume that narrower type.	CSD214 typescript
Name two ways to write a type guard mentioned in the lesson.	typeof for primitives, and instanceof for class instances (or a custom guard function).	CSD214 typescript
What makes a union a discriminated union?	Each member of the union shares a common field with a different literal value, which TypeScript can check to narrow which variant is in use.	CSD214 typescript
What does the optional chaining operator (?.) do in user?.profile?.name?	It short-circuits to undefined if user or profile is null or undefined, instead of throwing an error.	CSD214 typescript
How does nullish coalescing (??) differ from the logical OR operator (||) for fallback values?	?? only falls back when the left side is null or undefined, while || also falls back on falsy values like 0, "", or false.	CSD214 typescript
What does a mapped type like { readonly [P in keyof T]: T[P] } do?	It builds a new type by looping over the keys of T (via keyof T) and transforming each property, here by adding readonly.	CSD214 typescript
What does a conditional type like T extends string ? true : false do?	It picks between two types based on whether T matches a condition, similar to a ternary operator evaluated at the type level.	CSD214 typescript
