#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
Is UML a methodology or a notation?	A precise, graphical diagramming notation. It describes how to draw a design, not the process for creating one.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What are the three compartments of a UML class box, top to bottom?	The class name, the attributes (with types), and the methods (behaviours).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What do the UML visibility symbols -, +, # and ~ mean?	- private, + public, # protected, ~ package.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
Which Java access level matches the UML ~ symbol?	Package-private (no access modifier keyword).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What does multiplicity 0..* mean?	Zero or more (no upper limit). Plain * means the same.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What does multiplicity 1..* mean?	One or more (at least one).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What does multiplicity 0..1 mean?	Zero or one (optional).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
How do you read multiplicity 3..7?	A range from three through seven, inclusive.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
Why should multiplicity always be shown on an association?	Without it the relationship is unspecified, so readers can misunderstand how many objects are allowed.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
Why don't inheritance lines carry multiplicity numbers?	Inheritance is an is-a relationship between types (Cash is a type of Payment), not a link between collections of objects.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
In a simple directed association A --> B, which class knows about the other?	A knows about B (navigability A to B). B does not know about A.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What does a simple association usually correspond to in Java code?	An instance variable in Class A whose type is Class B.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What is a dependency relationship, and how is it drawn?	A weak, temporary uses-a relationship where a class uses another only as a method parameter or local variable. Dashed line with an open arrow (..>).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
How is a bidirectional association different from a simple association?	Both classes know about each other, so you can navigate both ways (e.g. Student and Course).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What is aggregation, and what symbol shows it?	A weak has-a relationship where the part can exist independently of the whole. Hollow diamond at the whole (o--).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What is composition, and what symbol shows it?	A strong part-of relationship where the part cannot exist without the whole and is destroyed with it. Solid diamond at the whole (*--).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
Which end of the line does an aggregation or composition diamond go on?	The whole (owner) end, e.g. Library o--> Book, House *--> Room.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What two tests justify composition over aggregation (Body/Hand example)?	Coincident lifetime (the part doesn't live independently) and exclusive ownership (the part belongs to only one whole at a time).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What is the Mermaid syntax for inheritance and what does it look like?	<|-- ; a solid line with a hollow triangle pointing at the parent.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What is realization, and what is its Mermaid syntax?	A class implementing an interface. Dashed line with a hollow triangle: <|..	CSD214 week3.1 uml
In the CashTill example, why does CashTill have sell(item: SaleableItem) instead of sell(p: Publication)?	It programs to an interface, so it only depends on getPrice() and can sell any SaleableItem without changes (low coupling, extensibility).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
In the bank example, why is Customer linked to BankAccount rather than to each account subclass?	The multiplicity then covers all subclasses, and a new account type can be added as a child without changing the Customer relationship.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
In the Clock example, why is Clock linked to the ClockDisplay interface?	So a DigitalDisplay or AnalogDisplay can be swapped at runtime without changing Clock's code (Strategy Pattern).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What is the purpose of a package diagram?	To simplify large systems by grouping related classes into higher-level units (like folders) and showing dependencies between them.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
In a package dependency arrow, which way does it point?	From the client (the package that needs info) to the supplier (the package providing it).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What design problem can package diagrams reveal?	Circular dependencies (package A depends on B and B depends on A), usually a sign of bad design.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
How is an object named in an object diagram?	instanceName : ClassName, e.g. centralLibrary : Library.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
How does an object diagram differ from a class diagram?	It shows a snapshot: instances instead of classes, values instead of types, and links without multiplicities.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What does a sequence diagram focus on?	The order of messages between objects over time (behaviour), with time flowing top to bottom.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
In a sequence diagram, what does an activation bar show?	When an object is active, busy performing a task.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
In a sequence diagram, what is the difference between ->> and -->> arrows?	->> (solid) is a synchronous call where the sender waits; -->> (dashed) is a return message.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What is an alt block used for in a sequence diagram?	To show alternative flows, like if/else (e.g. book available vs. already on loan).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
What are the two main categories of UML diagrams?	Structural diagrams (what the system is made of) and behavioral diagrams (how the system acts).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
Which UML diagram tracks how a single object changes state over its lifecycle?	A state machine diagram (e.g. Order: Pending, Paid, Shipped).	CSD214 week3.1 uml
Which UML diagram shows who (actor) can do what (use case) without technical detail?	A use case diagram.	CSD214 week3.1 uml
